# Q1, Monkeys, bananas and sailors

## Question

k sailors are stranded on a remote island, with n bananas and very aggresive monkeys. To survive, the sailors must ration the bananas. However, because the monkeys are very aggresive, they must also share some of the bananas with the monkeys.

They came up with the following system for each day.

- They split the bananas into k equal piles

- Since not all n can be fully divisible by k, there can be leftovers. They gave the leftovers to the monkeys.

- They then take one of the piles and make banana bread to be consumed for the day.

This process is repeated until they have no more bananas, Hopefully, they are rescued before they run out of bananas. What we want to know is how many bananas were given to the monkeys

Implement the function monkey(bananas, sailors) , which takes in two integers, bananas and sailors. bananas is the number of bananas (i.e., n) at the beginning and sailors is the number of sailors (i.e., k). The function computes the total number of bananas given to the monkeys.

## algo breakdown

n bananas split evenly among k sailors = n//k so the remaining is n mod k. After each day, take away 1 pile and give the remaining to the monkeys, total number of banana after each day is n - n//k - n mod k or n//k (k - 1)

```python
def monkey(bananas, sailors):
    res = 0
    while bananas:
        div, mod = divmod(bananas, sailors)
        res += mod
        bananas = div * (sailors - 1)
    return res
```

# Q2, Jaccard index

## Question

Too much formatting, tldr intersection cardinality over union cardinality

## algo breakdown

Maths: union of A and B is A + B - A intersect B

Cardinality of A and B is straightforward, just the length. Intersection is easier to deal with because we check value and type

Intesection requires same value and same type, so the condition is `if type(item1)==type(item2) and item1 == item2`

Note that we are simply counting elements that exist in both A and B so we can just implement a counter to track

## Solution

```python
def jaccard_index(T1, T2):
    A, B = len(T1), len(T2)
    inter = 0
    for item1 in T1:
        for item2 in T2:
            if type(item1) == type(item2) and item1 == item2:
                inter += 1
    union = A + B - inter
    return round(inter/union, 2)

```