# Q1, Print Diamond

##  Question

Implement a function print_pattern that takes in a positive odd integer, r, where r > 2, and prints a centered diamond-shaped number pattern.

More specifically, the print_pattern(r) function must printr rows. Each row that is printed corresponds to a palindrome(i.e., number that are the equal when reversed, e.g., "212", or "4321234"). Each row must be centered, such that the diamond shape is formed. Further, notice that the middle column always contains only 1, with numbers then increasing as you move to the left and right. When the next number in the sequence has multiple digits, print only its ones digit.
`

Things to note:

- palindrome

- centered and diamond shaped

- retrieve the ones place only

- creating the bottom half of the diamond

## Algo breakdown

### Creating palindrome number:

Can be addressed by treating it as a string, the easiest way to form this string is through formatted strings in a for loop

```python
for num in range(2, n):
    number = f"{num % 10}1{num % 10}"
```

If via usual str + str concatenation approach,

```python
number = '1'
for num in range(2, n):
    number = str(num) + number + str(num)
```

### Centering the number:

Another sign to deal this question in terms of str over int data type.

Since the longest row has length of r, the center is then r//2 and the required padding (using space) is r//2 - row number. Alternatively, use the center string method.

If padding,

```python
print(" " * (r//2 - row) + number)
```

String method,

```python
print(number.center(r))
```

### Creating top half of diamond:

Notice that each line "expands" from the center digit, consider string slicing from center - i to center + i + 1.

It is obvious that a while/for loop will be needed, the upper bound must be r//2  (r//2 + 1 works too) because slicing with respect to center, choosing r as upper bound will lead to multiple iterations of printing the entire number

```python
for i in range(r//2):
    temp = number[r//2 - i:r//2 + i + 1]
    print(temp.center(r))
```

### Creating bottom half of diamond:

Same thing just that we are counting down, use a while loop if unsure about for loop with -1 step size. String slicing is also the same

Choose the correct lower upper bounds based on choice in the first for loop, in this case I will use `for j in range(r//2, -1, -1)` since the above for loop did not account for r//2.

```python
for j in range(r//2, -1, -1):
    temp = number[r//2 - j:r//2 + j + 1]
    print(temp.center(r))
```

# Q2, Longest Common Substring

## Question 

> Implement a function longest_common_substring, that, given a list of strings, find and returns the longest substring that appears in every string in the list. A substring is a contiguous sequence of characters within a string. If no common substring exists, return the empty string "".

## Algo breakdown

The longest substring can be the entire shortest string in the list, is easier to sort by increasing length first but that is for efficiency sake than anything else

Just whack an approach first and test it. Approaches can be string slicing to a certain length, shifting start and end points of string slicing,...

An early return statement makes the algorithm more efficient but run the risk of returning the wrong substring. Safest approach is to not return early (algo efficiency is not an area of concern in PE anyway)

### Technique

Longest sub-smth usually uses a, commonnly coined as, sliding window technique. Window in this case refers to the string slicing when string slicing based on specific length.

Start end approach is essentially a brute force approach where it checks every possible substring case.

### String slicing

Since we are varying start/end or length/start, we need a inscribed for loop, e.g

For string slicing based on length,

```python
for length in range(len(word), 0, -1):
    for start in range(len(word) - length):
        sub_str = word[start:start + length]
```

For string slicing by start stop,

```python
for start in range(len(word)):
    for end in range(len(word), 0, -1):
        sub_str = word[start:end]
```

### Checking substring 

If you know the in-built function all then just use that. If not, check if substring exists in all the string in list

Cont. from str slicing inner for loop,

```python
checker = 0
for string in strings:
    if sub_str in string:
        checker += 1
if checker = len(strings):
    res = sub_str
```

If varying the length is used, there can be an early return statement since we are decreasing the length, the first occurance of substring will be the longest substring too

That said if the brute force approach is used (whack all start stop combination), res = sub_str will reset result sub string so we have to choose selectively (is the new sub str shorter or longer?)

```python
if checker = len(strings) and len(sub_str)>len(res):
    res = sub_str
```

Using in built all function:

```python
if all(sub_str in string for string in strings)
```